# NexNix

## What is NexNix?
NexNix is an aim to create a true modern UNIX system. But what does that entail? The UNIX philosophy is about simplicity. Looking at our selection, we can see that is not true of systems like Linux. The BSDs are better, but still quite complex. NexNix aims to be understandible by the masses. It could be used to teach how a production level OS works.
## Goals
NexNix's number 1 goal isn't simplicity, but rather speed. Most OSes nowadays are slow. In reality, you probably wouldn't notice a huge difference between Windows XP from 2001 and Windows 10 in 2021. In fact, W10 may even be slower! This trend compensates for Moore's Law. NexNix, however, aims to truly take advantage of Moore's Law. It does so by choosing the simplest fast algorithms. O(1) algorithms are used wherever possible. The amount of code bloat is designed to be very little. NexNix is a monolithic kernel based system. In spite of much controversy, microkernels are great for some applications, but can be impractical for general purpose workloads like UNIX is designed for.<br>
Another big goal is simplicity. One small look at Linux, and you'll see what I mean! Linux doesn't keep up with the UNIX philosophy. NexNix aims to do one thing and do it well, and that is give users a good place to run their apps that will help them be as productive as possible. Linux, however, aims to do everything for everyone, and hence is a bloated mess. The codebase is easy to read and follow. Code is well commented. Coding practices that everyone understands are used throughout.<br>
The other major goal is security. In computing nowadays, there are lots of people reading to wreak havoc on your machines, steal your data, and interrupt your life. For this reason, NexNix doesn't just bolt security on top of its framework. It is built in to the very architecture of the system.<br>
Those are the goals of NexNix. It is still in early development, but much is on the way!<br>
